# Optimal Qubit Measurement

The goal of this project is to improve the estimation of a qubit Hamiltonian parameter, DeltaB<sub>z</sub>. This parameter represents the hyperfine interaction between the qubit, a double quantum dot in GaAs, with the magnetic field from many GaAs nuclei. While this interaction with the environment could be interpreted as noise that will cause decoherence of the qubit state, if it can be estimated accurately, the effect can be tracked so information is not lost. 

DeltaB<sub>z</sub> is estimated by preparing the qubit in a known state and then making measurements of its state after some evolution time. This can be used to glean some information about the value of DeltaB<sub>z</sub>. In current schemes, this is done by taking ~100 measurements at linearly increasing evolution times and then estimating DeltaB<sub>z</sub> before doing the actual operations on the qubit. The quality of the estimation, and thus the improvement of coherence time, is limited by diffusion of DeltaB<sub>z</sub> outweighing improvements to the estimate after ~100 measurements. Therefore, this project demonstrates an improved choice of evolution times such that each measurement it most informative to the estimate of DeltaB<sub>z</sub>.

The optimized evolution times are calculated based on the current state of knowledge obtained by Bayesian analysis. Then, the possible next evolution times are simulated and the one that minimizes the expected variance in the estimate is chosen. The algorithm is described in more depth in the AdaptiveBayesianAlgorithm.pdf. Use of the algorithm to recreate the plots in the paper is described in tutorial.ipynb.
